What is Network Security?
Network security is the process of protecting and securing networks and underlying network infrastructure from different kinds of possible threats like unauthorized access, data disclosure, network destruction, and so on.

Network terminologies:
IP Address 
IP is an acronym for Internet Protocol. An IP address is a unique address that identifies a computing device on the Internet or a local network.

Ports 
At the software level, the port is a logical construct used to uniquely identify a transaction over a network and the type of network service. Think of an IP address like the address to your house and ports as the doors.

Internet 
The Internet is a globally connected network of computing devices available to everyone for communication and sharing information.

Network Traffic 
Network traffic is the amount of data moving across a computer network at any given time.

Packets 
Packets are smaller units of data sent across a computer network.

Important Network Protocols:
Ethernet
It is a LAN (local area network) technology protocol and it defines the physical layer of wired connection.

IP
The internet protocol is a network layer protocol and it establishes internet connections through its routing functions.

TCP
The transmission control protocol is a standard protocol that enables users to send and receive messages over the internet by defining the rules and layout of the transmission process and ensuring the integrity of the delivered data.

UDP
The user datagram protocol enables users to send and receive messages known as datagrams and it establishes a loss-tolerating speed connection.

HTTP
The Hypertext Transfer Protocol is a request-response type of protocol and it enables users to browse web resources and data. Most HTTP clients use TCP protocol in the connection process.

 

Video: https://youtu.be/Ilk7UXzV_Qc

Network Security Protections:
Access Control:
The first step in network security implementations is to conduct a powerful access control mechanism for preventing unauthorized parts from accessing network resources and to manage the access level for employees in a suitable way.

Firewalls:
Firewalls are a very common protection mechanism used in network security implementations, a firewall can be software or hardware.

 

Firewalls are monitoring protections that monitor the income or outcome traffic, they can also filter data and isolate malicious traffic.

Firewalls Types:
Stateful inspection firewalls.
Packet filters firewalls.
Application level firewalls (proxy).
Intrusion Prevention Systems:
Also known as IPS. These are network security technologies that similarly to firewalls also monitor traffic and recognize exploits and prevent them.

Virtual Private Network (VPN):
The VPN technology helps in establishing a secure tunneled private connection away from public internet networks.

 

The VPN technology encrypts all the corporate network connections over the internet so the connection between employees' devices and the network remains private.

Antivirus:
An antivirus is a software that is used to detect and remove malicious software like viruses, worms, and trojans on network devices.
